# Required Software

In order to begin you'll need to ensure that you have the following programs
and software installed:

## Terminals and Command Line interfaces

To install the necessary software, we'll be using *Command Line Interfaces*
(CLI). This is a computer term that contrasts with *Graphical User Interface*
(GUI) which is what most users are familiar with; i.e., buttons, text boxes
and graphical displays. CLIs instead can often achieve the same goals as GUIs
but do this by typing in a series of commands. Be certain to know how to
access your computer's CLI:

- Windows 10: Window's default command line interface is called
  [PowerShell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/powershell).
  We'll be using this to run commands in order to install the required
  programs. The steps allow you to open PowerShell on windows
  1. Click the windows start button
  1. type "Powershell"
  1. Press enter
- macOS: on macOS we'll use the [Terminal App](https://support.apple.com/guide/terminal/welcome/mac)
  1. Open spotlight (âŒ˜ + space bar)
  1. Type "Terminal"
  1. Press enter

You'll see a series of commands listed below. You can simply copy and paste
those commands into the terminal or powershell and press enter to execute
those commands.

## Package Managers

In order to install all the software needed in a standardized and reproducible
way, we encourage the use of community organized and verified package
managers. In short, these package managers allow you to download and install
programs using commands rather than downloading an install from the internet.
Follow the links below to install your package manager

### Windows: [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org)

Chocolatey is a new package manager that allows user to download and install
software by typing in commands on PowerShell use command below to install
Chocolatey

`Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))`

### macOS: [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)

Similar to Chocolatey, homebrew allows you to manage installed packages fro
macOS. Use the command below to install homebrew

`/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"`

## Python 3

[Python](https://www.python.org) is a *dynamic* scripting language used in
a variety of fields, from statistical analysis and machine learning to web
development and basic programming. In fact, the ANKI flash card app was made
using Python scripts. We use python scripts to automate some of the heavy
lifting when transferring data between REDCap projects and these stored
repositories and to run tests to ensure that any changes won't cause any
technical errors.

It is important to note that we utilize Python 3. This is mentioned because
there are some version of the python programming language that are distributed
as Python 2.7. Most Apple macOS computers come already installed with Python
2.7, but you'll still need to follow the instructions below to ensure you have
the appropriate version. Here we list the recommend ways to install python
based on your operating system:

- Windows: `choco install python`
- macOS: `brew install python3`

If the installation was successful, you should be able to run python by simply
typing `python` into your terminal. Then type `exit()` to quit.

$$ [Virtual Environments](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) *Recommended*

Installing this is not required, but recommended. Because python exists in
different versions, it is nice to let your computer know what specific version
you are working with. There are python libraries and code that we use that is
written by others using different versions and using virtual environments
ensures that we get the code that matches the current version of Python we
use.

Run the following command to install virtual environments for python

`python -m pip install virtualenvwrapper`

## Git / GitHub Desktop

Git is a version control system...
